Peter Rock
13 September 2018
Hw1 Gears

1) 100x100 FPS ~2100
   300x300 FPS ~1050
   Full    FPS ~180

   The decrease in frame rate with increased window size is to be expected. When the gears
   program is running, it has to calculate the color of each pixel as the animation moves.
   The larger the frame size, the greater the computational load on the computer. In the
   case of the 100x100 screen, we know that the computer only had to keep track 10,000 pixels
   whereas in the 300x300 case the computer needed to keep track of 90,000 pixels which is
   nearly 10 times as much. After plotting the data for frame rates between 100 and 1100
   with step size of 100, I was able to determine that the decline of the frame rate was
   roughly logarithmic.

2) There are many reasons that the frame rate of the gears program could be different on
   different systems. These limitations tend to fall into three categories: CPU limited,
   geometry limited, and fill limited.

   If the animation were to be CPU limited, then we would expect to see the strain on the
   CPU in the resources monitor. However, upon inspection, it appears that the gears
   program only takes up a small fraction of the CPU or the RAM resources on the computer.

   Another possible explanation for the the disparity in frame rate is that the program is 
   geometry limited. There are three gear objects in this animation each of which continually
   undergoes a rotation transformation. Each time this transformation is applied, the GPU
   needs to calculate how the operation behaves on each of the vertices in the gears. For
   some systems, such as my laptop, this operation is happered by the fact that the GPU is 
   integrated into the CPU, and, therefore, is unable to devote a large amount of resources
   to the computation of the rotation transformations since the majority of the processor is
   to be reserved for running the OS. On larger computers with dedicated graphics cards (like 
   my desktop), however, there is no such constraint on the resources.

   The last possible souce of the frame rate disparity would be that the gears program is 
   fill limited. This limitation refers to how quickly the graphics hardware fills in the
   pixels in the scene.

   

   Ok... so is it geometry or fill limited. On the desktop it looks fill limited, but on my
   laptop it appears to be geometry limited.
   


3) 4 hours.

Sources:

https://www.opengl.org/archives/resources/faq/technical/performance.htm
